oh man what a great film oh what a great
film hey guys welcome back to movie
losses 31 days of poor I'm Jay s and I'm
Zack
and tonight we're discussing the TV
miniseries the shine is shining the
masterpiece 1997 not that overrated on
the oh really oh wait that is the one
we're talking about yeah yeah I guess
yeah what are your thoughts on the shine
and we should just say it's straight up
like if you haven't seen this shining
you probably want to stop watching this
yes we're gonna be giving in to anything
and every in my opinions the best war
film ever made
yeah Rob ibly my favorite Kubrick film
and that's saying a lot
I I can't I can't go so far as far as
saying it's my favorite Kubrick film but
it's definitely one of my favorite
horror film isn't all time
what do you love about The Shining it's
just it's got this feeling this aura
you're in a maze and it's kind of funny
because if you look at the the companion
film which we'll talk about room 237 got
to get off on tangent
but they talked a lot about how the film
itself is a labyrinth and in the movie
The Shining there's the labyrinth that
is the maze outside the hotel and the
whole film is kind of like there's all
these hidden meanings and once you get
once you start watching it you start to
notice all these things that kind of
yeah everything up oh one of my favorite
visual set pieces in this film is not
only the maze outside of the Overlook
Hotel but they have like this replica
that's inside yeah there's this
fascinating sequence where we have Jack
Torrance is played by Jack
he's just sort of like looking into it
and we see his wife Micheline uma on his
son Danny played by Danny Lloyd who are
actually running through this maze yeah
it's just a really cool visual effect
shot but yeah I'm there with you when
you get to the Overlook Hotel you know
something's wrong
yeah and it's just it definitely takes
this time it's a slower and I'm a big
fan of movies that incorporate via the
places the the setting for the film has
a character and that's what I love most
about this film is it your kid who is
afraid of you know grandma's attic or
something like that the shiny just makes
you really afraid so you can stay at a
hotel when you're a little kid because
you think there's going to be twins
trying to murder you the entire time
yeah and it affects each of the
characters pretty different yet Jack is
who suffers from alcoholism he's going
through withdrawals and he's the one who
suffers some cabin fever he's definitely
seen two things his son like you
mentioned those twins you know what is
in the room 2 3 stuff I forgot the
famous photograph that that is based off
but or the framing the composition but I
mean this cinematography in the shiny
and is hands-down just yeah John who
also shot some of other coolest most
visionary masterpieces like Clockwork
Orange
so let's talk a little bit about room
237 we alluded to this earlier this is a
documentary
it was in festivals last year got a
limited theatrical release this year and
it's currently streaming on that voice
and standard unless a movie about the
shining and maybe more about fandom yeah
and the theories that you have take but
one of the cool things about the shining
is that it's very open to interpretation
that is definitely true there's a lot of
hidden meanings symbolism I would a it's
a puzzle
that's what if somebody was like what is
the shining it's a puzzle but it's it's
a very cerebral and I wouldn't say I
mean there I think it's a flawless film
personally yeah I definitely the craft
is all the experience impeccable Shelley
Duvall is one of the babes of cinema so
how could you not want to look at her
that's true yes yeah they I think find
work is hidden from everyone Danny Boy
this was his one and only film and now
he's a science teacher in Kentucky
actually that's funny but I think he's a
great child actor and he's not like most
kids you see in horror movies who are
just dumb as rocks
like there's that scene at the end where
he's covering his friends in the snow
yeah he my actually favorite shot in the
film is when he's riding the biker out
of the bed with the big wheel on the on
the carpet just that sounded like it
came the carpet and the hardwood he
nodded I mean it's just disturbing a
little nerve-racking things like that
yeah it's the little things that pay off
for the one big thing and that is the
shining one last note is Wendy Carlos's
score is fabulous yeah you you hear that
at the very opening credits when we had
this helicopter shot
first driving up to the hotel and Wow it
really has an impact it is so eerie
all right well tune in tomorrow to see
what we'll be reviewing next this is 31
days of Halloween I'm Jes and I'm Zack